Adding output schemas (#32)
qir-alliance/qir-spec: specification/under_development/output_schemas/No_Labels_And_Ordered.md

```

produces output records of the format `"OUTPUT\tDOUBLE\td"` where `d` is the string representation of the double value, such as `"OUTPUT\tDOUBLE\t3.14159"`

### Tuple Type Records

```llvm
void @__quantum__rt__tuple_record_output(i64, i8*)
```

Inserts a marker in the generated output that indicates the start of a tuple and how many tuple elements it has. It produces output records of exactly `"OUTPUT\tTUPLE\tn"` where `n` is the string representation of the integer value, such as `"OUTPUT\tTUPLE\t4"`. The second parameter defines a string label for the tuple. Depending on the output schema, the label is included in the output or omitted.

### Array Type Records

```llvm
void @__quantum__rt__array_record_output(i64, i8*)
```

Inserts a marker in the generated output that indicates the start of an array and how many array elements it has. It produces output records of exactly `"OUTPUT\tARRAY\tn"` where `n` is the string representation of the integer value, such as `"OUTPUT\tARRAY\t4"`. The second parameter defines a string label for the array. Depending on the output schema, the label is included in the output or omitted.

> ## Examples

Reviewer: Since this is the non-labeled schema, shouldn't the examples omit the labels and show the output recording calls with `null` as their label argument?

### Basic Single Item Output 

The QIR program would include a single call to the runtime function matching the type of the return value: 

```llvm
@0 = internal constant [3 x i8] c"0_i\00"
call void @__quantum__rt__integer_record_output(i64 %5, i8* getelementptr inbounds ([3 x i8], [3 x i8]* @0, i32 0, i32 0))
ret void
```

Such that the provider output for `3` shots would be: 

```log
START
METADATA\tmetadata1_name_only
METADATA\tmetadata2_name\tmetadata2_value
OUTPUT\tINT\t42
END\t0
START
METADATA\tmetadata1_name_only
METADATA\tmetadata2_name\tmetadata2_value
OUTPUT\tINT\t41
END\t0
START
METADATA\tmetadata1_name_only
METADATA\tmetadata2_name\tmetadata2_value
OUTPUT\tINT\t42
END\t0
```

## Measurement Result Array Output 

> For an array of measurement results (or classical register), the QIR program would include array start and end calls, with intervening result record calls (shown with static result allocation transformations performed): 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For an array of measurement results (or classical values), the QIR program would include an array output recording call, where the first argument indicates the length of the array, followed by the corresponding output recording calls that represent each one of the array items (shown with static result allocation transformations performed):
```

call void @__quantum__rt__result_record_output(%Result* %2, i8* getelementptr inbounds ([7 x i8], [7 x i8]* @1, i32 0, i32 0))
call void @__quantum__rt__array_record_output(i64 2, i8* getelementptr inbounds ([5 x i8], [5 x i8]* @2, i32 0, i32 0))
call void @__quantum__rt__result_record_output(%Result* nonnull inttoptr (i64 0 to %Result*), i8* getelementptr inbounds ([7 x i8], [7 x i8]* @3, i32 0, i32 0))
call void @__quantum__rt__result_record_output(%Result* nonnull inttoptr (i64 0 to %Result*), i8* getelementptr inbounds ([7 x i8], [7 x i8]* @4, i32 0, i32 0))
ret void
```

This would produce provider output for `3` shots of the form: 

```log
START
METADATA\tmetadata1_name_only
METADATA\tmetadata2_name\tmetadata2_value
OUTPUT\tARRAY\t1
OUTPUT\tRESULT\t0
OUTPUT\tARRAY\t2
OUTPUT\tRESULT\t1
OUTPUT\tRESULT\t1
END\t0
START
METADATA\tmetadata1_name_only
METADATA\tmetadata2_name\tmetadata2_value
OUTPUT\tARRAY\t1
OUTPUT\tRESULT\t1
OUTPUT\tARRAY\t2
OUTPUT\tRESULT\t1
OUTPUT\tRESULT\t1
END\t0
START
METADATA\tmetadata1_name_only
METADATA\tmetadata2_name\tmetadata2_value
OUTPUT\tARRAY\t1
OUTPUT\tRESULT\t0
OUTPUT\tARRAY\t2
OUTPUT\tRESULT\t1
OUTPUT\tRESULT\t1
END\t0
```

## Tuple Output 

> Recording tuple output works much the same way as array output, but with a different delimiter character in the final processed output. So, a QIR program that returns a tuple of a measurement result and calculated double value would end with: 

Reviewer: Similar to the comment in the Labeled_And_Async document, mentioning the different delimiter character might be getting into the details of the labeling schema.

## Record types

Records are expected to have 1-3 fields: 

- RecordType: an id that identifies the type of content in the record. The only supported RecordTypes will be `START`, `METADATA`, `OUTPUT`, and `END`.
  - `START` indicates the beginning of a shot's output definition
  - `METADATA` records have a name field and optional value field
  - `OUTPUT` records have a type in the set: `RESULT`, `TUPLE`, `ARRAY`, `INT`, `BOOL`, or `DOUBLE`.
    - `TUPLE` and `ARRAY` types have a third field indicating the number of items in the container.
    - `RESULT`, `INT`, `BOOL`, `DOUBLE` types have a third field indicating the value of the record.
  - `END` indicate the completion of a shot's output definition with the exit code for the entry point.

Output for each shot is expected to have:
- One `START` record
- At least one `METADATA` record. The generation of these records is not part of the generated QIR, but written as part of the [base profile][] spec as pass-thru metadata. Likewise the `START` and `END` records are not part of the generated QIR. The `output_labeling_schema` flows through the metadata records.
- One or more `OUTPUT` records
- One `END` record

> The `START` record does not have any value entry. The `END` record has a value entry of `0`. The `RESULT` records will have a value corresponding to the runtime function called, either a result type record or a string representation of a supported primitive type. The `OUTPUT` records must appear in the same order as the calls in the QIR program. 

Reviewer 2: Maybe to clarify my question, the text says:
> The `RESULT` records will have a value corresponding to the runtime function called, either a result type record or a string representation of a supported primitive type. 

however, the abnf says that `RESULT` must be a `BIT`; therefore, what is meant by "string representation of a supported primitive type"?

### Array Type Records

```llvm
void @__quantum__rt__array_record_output(i64, i8*)
```

Inserts a marker in the generated output that indicates the start of an array and how many array elements it has. It produces output records of exactly `"OUTPUT\tARRAY\tn"` where `n` is the string representation of the integer value, such as `"OUTPUT\tARRAY\t4"`. The second parameter defines a string label for the array. Depending on the output schema, the label is included in the output or omitted.

## Examples

### Basic Single Item Output 

The QIR program would include a single call to the runtime function matching the type of the return value: 

```llvm
@0 = internal constant [3 x i8] c"0_i\00"
call void @__quantum__rt__integer_record_output(i64 %5, i8* getelementptr inbounds ([3 x i8], [3 x i8]* @0, i32 0, i32 0))
ret void
```

Such that the provider output for `3` shots would be: 

```log
START
METADATA\tmetadata1_name_only
METADATA\tmetadata2_name\tmetadata2_value
OUTPUT\tINT\t42

> END\t0

Author: I'll be addressing this shortly.

> END\t0

Author: @qci-amos  Updated in notes doc

  - `END` indicate the completion of a shot's output definition with the exit code for the entry point.

Output for each shot is expected to have:

- One `START` record
- `METADATA` records for each of the defined entry point attributes. The generation of these records is not part of the generated QIR, but written as part of the [base profile][] spec as pass-thru metadata. The [base profile required attributes](../profiles/Base_Profile.md#attributes) define the minimum set of attributes which will appear. Examples can be found in the [notes for implementors examples](./Notes_For_Implementors.md#examples).
- One or more `OUTPUT` records
- One `END` record

> The `START` and `END` records are not part of the generated QIR but are written as part of an implementor's definition of a shot. The `START` record does not have any value entry. The `END` record has a value entry of `0`. The `RESULT` records will have a value corresponding to the runtime function called, either a result type record or a string representation of a supported primitive type. The `OUTPUT` records must appear in the same order as the calls in the QIR program.

Author: @qci-amos Pushed an update to clarify.
